---
title: "$H_0$ and reduced homology"
date: 2024-02-05T08:37:52+05:30
draft: false
---

Let `$X$` be a topological space and `$P$` the set of path-components of `$X$`. Let `$\Z[P]$` be the free abelian group generated by `$P$`. Recall that `$\Delta^0$` is a single point and singular `$0$`-simplicies in `$X$` are maps `$\sigma: \Delta^0 \to X$`, which can thus be identified with points.

Define a homomorphism `$\Phi: C_0(X) \to \Z[P]$` by sending a singular `$0$`-simplex `$\sigma$` to the path-component `$P_\sigma$` of `$X$` containing the image of `$\sigma$`. 

1. Show that `$\Phi$` induces a homomorphism `$\varphi: H_0(X) \to \Z[P]$`.
2. Show that `$\varphi$` is injective.
3. Show that `$\varphi$` is surjective.

Recall that `$\widetilde{C}_0(X) = C_0(X)$`, `$\widetilde{C}_{-1}(X) = \Z$` and `$\widetilde{\partial}_0 = \varepsilon$` is the augmentation map defined by `$\varepsilon(\sigma) = 1$` for a singular `$0$`-simplex `$\sigma$`.

4. Show that there is an injective homomorphism `$i: \widetilde{H}_0(X) \to H_0(X)$` induced by the identity on `$\widetilde{C}_0(X) = C_0(X)$`.
5. Show that `$\varepsilon$` induces a homomorphism `$\bar{\varepsilon}:H_0(X) \to \Z$`.
6. Show that `$\bar{\varepsilon}$` is surjective if and only if `$X$` is non-empty.
7. Show that the image of `$i: \widetilde{H}_0(X) \to H_0(X)$` is the kernel of `$\bar{\varepsilon}$`.
8. Suppose `$X$` is non-empty. Show that there exists a homomorphism `$s: \Z \to \widetilde{H}_0(X)$` (called a _section_) such that `$\bar{\varepsilon} \circ s = 1_\Z$`.

Define the homomorphism `$\psi: \widetilde{H}_0(X) \times \Z \to H_0(X)$` by `$\psi(z, n) = i(z) + s(n)$`.

9. Show that `$\psi$` is injective.
10. Show that `$\psi$` is surjective.
11. What is `$\widetilde{H}_0(\phi)$`? (`$\phi$` is the empty space)
12. What is `$\widetilde{H}_{-1}(\phi)$`?
13. What is `$\widetilde{H}_{-1}(X)$` if `$X$` is non-empty?


